# Configuration Management
In all earnesty, configuration management does not interest me a lot.
What does interest me, however, is good order, and automated processes.
I believe that there is no other way to achieve the speed,
confidence and traceability that comes with a smooth automated process with
continous integration, automatic testing and well-ordered software.

## Use Sharp Tools
A foundation for these properties is the source code management system.
There is no tool that I believe can save so much money and increase productivity
to the extent of git. Traceability is built-in, and many tools exist to integrate
with e.g. automated testing.

Automated tests, in turn, create a confidence in the product, and allows for
a development pace that can be truly amazing! If well implemented, these
will also show the progress towards implementing the mass of requirements
which may otherwise seem both daunting and decoupled from the implementation.

A lot of tools exist today which aid in configuration management - and many of them are bad.
If you have ever used a really bad issue management tool in a large project, you know
what a huge cost this poses to the company - through wasted time and frustration.
It *is* important to use sharp tools in this process, so like with anything else - **keep it simple, stupid**.

## It's All About the Mindset
Some of my mantras during my time as a configuration manager has been

 - *One product*, meaning everyone ultimately needs to be working towards the common good,
 - Everyone should now how their work contributes to the end goal,
 - Simplify structure and overview,
 - Automate everything.

These mantras have been immensely successful. When I got the support from the project management
to implement our suggested changes, we finally managed to turn a downwards spiral of increasing disorder
to a point where we're actually kind of know what we're doing!

We were able to introduce a simple overall picture which was mirrored exactly in the git structure - letting us
use this structure as the single source of information for changes to the product. 
While we still have a lot of issues to resolve, it's great the impact one can 
have on the productivity on an entire company, if you fight hard for what you believe in!
