# Helicopter Operating System
The helios operating system is not an operating system in the classical sense,
yet provides mechanisms often quite similar to those found at the core
of common RTOS's. Almost everything about helios is about passing messages.
Messages over network and serial communication are handled in a generalized fashion,
but the most prominent type of message passing in helios is the inter-thread
communication.

## Typed Message Passing
In C/C++, each function (or member function) may be associated with local (static)
storage. Specifically, in C++, the local storage is unique to every template
instantiation of a function. By exploiting this feature, helios provides
type-safe message-passing, with all lookups and connections being made at
link time.

This type of message passing is implemented using the three concepts of
**Signals**, **Vias** and **Dispatchers**.

Relevant signatures:
```
:::C++
void action(const MessageType m, const MessageType2 m2);
template<typename T> class Via;
template<typename T> void yield(const T& val);
template<typename T, typename... TARG> class Dispatcher : public Via<TARG>...;
```

Starting at the top abstraction layer, a dispatcher is a process thread
with the responsibility to launch a C++ function (e.g. the *action* function) as soon as all its
arguments have been made available. Each of these arguments is passed through a *Via*,
a call to which will stall until a new value of the correct type has been *yielded*.

```
:::C++
while(!dying) {
    // Basic concept of vias; the value method will return when a value has been 
    // yielded, in turn invoking the action function.
    performAction(Via<TARG>::value()...);
}
```

An actionfunction can take any number of arguments, but will only be executed when all
Via's return values, as provided by *yield*. The (C++) type of message is called a *signal*,
the precense of which must be explicitly instantiated.

```
:::C++
#include <os/com/Dispatcher.hpp>
#include <os/com/getSignal.hpp>
INSTANTIATE_SIGNAL(int);
INSTANTIATE_SIGNAL(char);

void action(const int, const char) {
    ...
}
void otherFunction() {
    yield(1); // action is still not being called
    ...
    yield('a'); // action will be scheduled to run (not nescessarily immediately)
}
```


There also exists two signals which are time-triggered, `os::Jiffy` and `os::SystemTime`.
These signals can trigger the system to run at any rate - enabling simulations to run at
a much faster pace than real-time.

Each module is instantiated in its own thread. Fast simulations while maintaining
reproducibility, are made possible by the fact that each module will wait until all its inputs are
provided - and are as such independent of any global shared state. The stepping up of the 
system time will be triggered immediately when all modules have finished running, and a specified minimum time has passed.
In simulation, this time can be set to zero, giving full utilization of the processor.
